# Configuration of software projects

This document captures some decisions around how software projects are configured to integrate with Glossia.

## Format considerations

While some tools in the ecosystem, such as [Babel](https://babeljs.io/docs/configuration), choose to offer a high degree of flexibility, we've recognized that this can lead to decision paralysis and hinder the user experience, especially for non-developers unfamiliar with the assortment of common formats. As such, we have consciously **decided against supporting multiple formats**.

We also strongly believe in **the importance of a seamless editing experience that includes auto-completion, validation, and accessible documentation**. Without such integrated functionality, developers often find themselves shuffling between documentation and the editor, or relying on the platform to validate formats after pushing changes upstream. Our commitment to an optimal user experience informs our choice of **[JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) as the most fitting format**.

Notably, JSON and its defining standard, [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org), are extensively supported by numerous editors, obviating the need for users to install additional tools in their environment. Online editors, including GitHub, provide robust support for JSON as well.

In order to accommodate user comments, we have opted for [an enhanced version of JSON that **supports comments**](https://json5.org). This modification helps ensure our users not only benefit from JSON's established advantages but also have the added ability to make notes and clarifications directly within the code.

## Modular

The second facet of configuration pertains to **its location and its monolithic versus modular character**. Many tools requiring simple configuration opt for a single monolithic file at the root, such as [renovatebot.json](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/). Conventional wisdom might have guided us down a similar path; however, after careful consideration, we determined that **supporting and promoting modularity is a more advantageous route**.

The primary motivation for modularization pertains to the **manageability** of the configuration file. If a project has a significant volume of content and a highly bespoke configuration, it might result in an unwieldy, error-prone monolithic configuration file at the root. While starting with a monolithic structure can be effective, we encourage developers to divide it into smaller, more manageable units over time. This segmentation allows for a level of **atomicity** akin to what developers achieve by encapsulating behavior, style, and markup in components. By advocating for modular configuration, we enable developers to situate content closer to the components that consume it.

```
src/
  components/
    navigation/
      content/
      NavigationBar.jsx
      glossia.jsonc
assets/
  blog/
    glossia.jsonc
    posts/
```

Moreover, configurations in nested directories could override the root configuration. For example, let's suppose a page for the German market would like to include a component only for the German audience. The developer could encapsulate that component into its own folder, and include a Glossia configuration file indicating that the source language is German and that the target language is either none, or English to keep an English-representation of the content originally written in Germany.

To sum it up, we decided to support modular **configuration for maintainability, atomicity, and overridability.**